>> Jem Young: I have some
database tips for you.
First one, back up your database.
You'd be surprised the number of
businesses that have lost money, gone
under, just made really silly mistakes
cuz they didn't backup their database.
It's kind of simple, but yeah, anyways.
Use a strong root password.
Root is all powerful,
just like on your computer, same thing.
Someone who logs in with root,
they can just delete all your data.
They can change it as they want and
they can add $10 million to their account.
Doesn't matter,
use a strong root password.
Generally add users, but
give them fine grained permissions.
So most users don't
need the write ability,
they don't need the ability
to write to a database.
So throw that in there,
you create users that have permissions,
just like we did with chmod,
we can do that with SQL.
The syntax is different,
but the idea is the same.
Limit isolation of users' powers is always
a good idea, especially with databases.
I read a story on Reddit.
It was a couple months ago, but
it was some guy, he just started a job and
he deleted the production databases.
Some people remember that story.
And I felt bad because it's not his fault.
It's not his fault that the permissions
weren't set up correctly,
that he had the ability to do that.
Again, just like chmod, just like running
things in sudo, if you give people power,
they will probably shoot
themselves in the foot eventually.
So we wanna limit that
as much as possible.
So, don't give people power to,
A, delete anything.
That should always be root.
Don't let them have the ability to
overwrite data, the same thing.
Yeah, I feel bad for that guy,
poor guy, cuz it wasn't his fault.
How would he know?
Also use a dev database, and
use production database.
Do not, if you have a dev environment,
do not use a production database.
These things are common sense, and people
in the real world are shaking their heads.
But yeah, people do it,
you'd be surprised.
Databases will put you under very quickly,
if you're not just very
cautious with them.
Don't expose your database
outside the network.
There's not many reasons why I would be
need to be able to log into my database
from a browser.
So in general just don't do that.
Only within your network of computers
should you be able to log into a database.
That's an easy one.
Again, people don't do it.
They expose their database to the world,
people are gonna try to hack it.
Even if it's an empty database,
people just wanna know what's inside.
Fourth one, sanitize your SQL.
So what that means is, if I can run
random commands from my web app,
as in it's unsanitized.
So I can say, drop tables dot, and
I have that ability from my web app,
because you didn't do permissions
correctly, you're not sanitizing your SQL.
That's a very, very,
very common vulnerability.
If you're talking about any sort of
website penetration testing, application
testing, the first thing they're
gonna do is SQL sanitation attacks.
Wait, I think there's a about it.
>> Speaker 2: Bobby, drop tables.
>> Jem Young: Bobby, drop tables.
Xkcd SQL,
>> Jem Young: Little Bobby tables
>> Jem Young: [LAUGH]
>> Jem Young: [LAUGH] Love this one.
And now we understand a little bit
more about what this joke means.
You have to sanitize your SQL so
one, people don't have this ability.
Two, they shouldn't have this ability
anyways, as a random user, to drop tables.
Drop tables just means delete the whole
table, people do that all the time.
It's like basics,
which you're not gonna do.
Cuz you now learned, that I just harped
on that for the past three minutes.
The way to get around sanitize
your SQL is almost every library.
So we can use node SQL,
node by SQL miss time
has a way of sanitizing database or
SQL queries for you.
People try to do it by hand.
They say, I'm just gonna pipe whatever
the user sends directly into the database.
That's where you run in trouble
because there's always something you
haven't accounted for.
So in general, don't put a pass
raw SQL into your database.
And if I'm saying things
that are kind of nuanced and
kind of fine-grained, if you've ever
worked with any sort of database,
you probably know what I'm talking about.
If you will, remember my face at
this moment, sanitize your SQL.
And the fifth tip is backup your database.
Yes it's in there twice,
because people don't do it.
At some point someone
might drop your database,
your database might get corrupted.
Someone did a mass update and
they just rewrote all that data.
It happens all the time.
You need to have the ability to roll back.
This is important.
These are more production tips,
which you wouldn't run into locally, but
backup your database.
I actually had another one in there but
I took it out cuz I
thought it was a bit much.
But I just want to make sure
everybody understands my point.
So if we wanted to,
we can hook MySQL into Node.
We're just going to use
the library of MySQL JS.
We're not gonna do it because,
it's a bit late in the day and
we don't really have anything to query.
But if you wanted to,
it's just MPMI, MyAQL JS.
Goes through everything on how to
set it up, how to use the user,
using a correct database,
how to make queries, things like that.
If that's what you're interested in, cool.
I think there might be a frontend Masters
course which goes into a bit more detail
on databases.
And if so, I'll try to link it at
the end of the talk, if I figure it out.
But anyways, that's MySQL.
That's node.
That's setting up a database in general.
That's database at a very,
very, very high level.
Again, it gets so nuanced.
You have like things like Redshift or
Cassandra.
You have different types of database for
querying at different speeds.
Different pros and cons, but
I won't go into that today.
This is just full sets.
That's all you need now, for now.